## Bluetooth off by default at boot, toggle turns it on (final fix)

What: Disabled Blueman's autostart entry (was conflicting with the
      Caelestia bluetooth toggle).

Why: Blueman (a separate bluetooth applet, running via
     /etc/xdg/autostart/blueman.desktop) was starting alongside
     Caelestia and enforcing its own remembered "off" state via
     rfkill on every login — a lower layer than what Caelestia's
     toggle controls (bluetoothctl power). This meant the Caelestia
     toggle would flip to "Enabled" in the UI but the radio stayed
     soft-blocked underneath, since Blueman kept re-blocking it.
     AutoEnable=false in main.conf was a red herring here — it was
     previously masking this conflict, not causing it (bluetoothd's
     aggressive auto-power-on at boot was racing ahead of/overriding
     Blueman before this setting was touched).

How:
- mkdir -p ~/.config/autostart
- cp /etc/xdg/autostart/blueman.desktop ~/.config/autostart/
- echo 'Hidden=true' >> ~/.config/autostart/blueman.desktop
- sudo rfkill unblock bluetooth
- Logged out/in, confirmed app-blueman@autostart.service no longer
  running and rfkill list shows unblocked with no manual commands

Kept: AutoEnable=false in /etc/bluetooth/main.conf (adapter off by
      default at boot; Caelestia toggle now correctly turns it on
      since Blueman is no longer fighting it).

To undo (re-enable Blueman autostart):
Remove ~/.config/autostart/blueman.desktop (or delete the
Hidden=true line from it).




SOLID Principles — Quick Overview

SOLID is a set of five object-oriented design principles, but the underlying ideas generalize well beyond OOP:

S — Single Responsibility Principle: A unit of code (class, function, component) should have one reason to change.
    It should do one thing.
O — Open/Closed Principle: Code should be open for extension but closed for modification — you should be able to add
    new behavior without rewriting existing, working code.
L — Liskov Substitution Principle: A subtype should be usable anywhere its base type is expected, without breaking correctness.
I — Interface Segregation Principle: Don't force a consumer to depend on methods/props it doesn't use — prefer several small,
    specific interfaces over one large one.
D — Dependency Inversion Principle: High-level logic shouldn't depend on low-level implementation details directly — both]
    should depend on abstractions.

Honest answer: was this bug a SOLID violation?

Not really, directly — and I don't want to force-fit it. The attachment bug wasn't caused by bad class hierarchies or
tight coupling to concrete implementations. It was an async state management bug: a race condition between an async operation
(uploadFile()) and a synchronous read of state that assumed the async operation had already finished.

That said, there's one legitimate SOLID-adjacent connection worth naming, plus some more directly relevant design
principles that actually explain what went wrong.

The one real SOLID connection: Single Responsibility, blurred

handleSubmit had an implicit, undeclared responsibility it wasn't built to hold: knowing whether the form's async
side-effects had settled. It was written as if its only job was "read formData and send it" — but its actual job also
included "don't do that if formData isn't done being populated yet." That second responsibility existed nowhere in the code.
Nothing owned it. That's the SRP-flavored way to describe the gap: a responsibility existed in reality (someone has to know
whether the form is submittable) but wasn't assigned to any actual piece of code.

The more directly relevant principles

1. Make invalid states unrepresentable.
Before the fix, the system could be in a state — "form has an attachment field that looks filled but the actual upload
hasn't finished" — that nothing modeled or checked for. The attachment field was just a string, indistinguishable between
"genuinely not chosen yet" and "chosen, upload in progress." A more defensive data model would have made those two states
explicit (e.g., attachment: string | "uploading" | null), so a submit handler couldn't accidentally treat "uploading" as "done."

2. Fail fast / validate at the boundary.
validate() existed but didn't actually enforce what the UI implied was required (the red asterisk on Attachment). This is a
classic gap between stated intent (the UI says it's required) and enforced intent (the code that's supposed to check it doesn't).
Any place where you assert a rule visually should have a matching, actually-executed check — otherwise the assertion is just
decoration.

3. Don't trust that async operations have completed just because a callback exists.
The core technical mistake: treating handleFileChange's completion (setting attachment in state) as something that would
naturally happen before submission, without ever coupling the two. Any time you have "operation A populates data that operation
B depends on," and A is async while B is a user-triggered action, you need an explicit gate — not implicit trust that the user
will wait.

How to remind yourself of this in future projects

1. A checklist question for any async-then-user-action pattern:

"Can the user trigger the next step before this async call resolves? If yes, what happens?"
Ask this specifically whenever you write async function handleX(...) that sets state, and there's a button elsewhere that reads
that state. This single question would have caught this bug on day one.

2. A personal rule: every async state-setter needs a paired "in-flight" flag.

Whenever you write:

```js
const handleX = async () => {
    const result = await someAsyncCall();
    setSomeState(result);
};
```
Immediately ask: "does anything else depend on someState being current? If so, I need isXInProgress too, and I need to gate
the dependent action on it." Make this as automatic as remembering to handle the error case.

3. Validation should mirror the UI, not the other way around.
If a field is marked required in the UI (asterisk, "Required" label), there should be a corresponding, tested line in
validation logic — not an assumption that the UI prevents bad states by itself. UI is a suggestion to the user; validation
is the actual guarantee.

4. Treat "no error was thrown" as different from "the operation succeeded."
The original code had several if (response?.status === 200 && success) { ... } blocks with no else. A cheap, mechanical
habit: whenever you write an if around an async response, ask "what happens in every other case?" — and write something for it,
even if it's just a console warning at first.

5. When you find one instance of a bug pattern, grep for the pattern itself, not just the symptom.
You did this well already in this project — once you found the reimbursement race condition, you searched for
uploadFile( everywhere and found it in leaves and profile too. That instinct ("this shape of bug probably exists elsewhere") is
worth keeping as a standing habit, not just a one-off response to this incident.

6. Write yourself a one-line "lesson learned" note per bug you fix.
Something like a running personal log:

Async upload + separate submit button = race condition unless explicitly locked. Check for this pattern whenever a form has a file
input and a submit button in different handlers.
Keeping a short list like this, reviewed occasionally, builds the instinct faster than trying to remember abstract principles
alone — it's the concrete pattern-recognition that actually prevents repeat mistakes.


